The concept of Privacy
----------------------
We are going to start by defining what we mean by "privacy".

Privacy is the right to keep something for yourself. Something like what you
are doing now, or where you are doing it, or who you are doing it with.

It has to do with the communications only being read, listen or seen by the
people who they were intended to.

It may sound very simple, but in today's world the above 2 statements are almost
never ever complied with.

And all the above is a concern even way before we enter in the realm of your
"freedom of thought and expression", which is a much more difficult or even impossible
thing to accomplish.


How our Privacy is compromised
------------------------------
In the XXI century our privacy is totally compromised for the following main
factors:

1.- All (or at list most) of us walk around the whole day with mobile devices
    in our pockets, which are permanently reporting our location within metres
    of our true coordinates, and they are doing this THOUSANDS of times per day, so
    that our movements are being recorded.

2.- We make most of our payments with electronic money or credit cards, which
    are closely tied back to us, from which there is a very detailed registry of
    our locations and consumption patterns.

3.- We interact with the world using the Internet, which utilises protocols which
    are intrinisecally insecure, transporting and storing all our information
    (text, images, voice and video) with total visibility to any actor, powerful
    or not, good guy or bad guy, who wants to see it, listen to it or analyze it.
    It is not that our data COULD be seen and tracked, it is ACTUALLY and CONSTANTLY
    being seen, analysed and stored by all these actors.

4.- We have volunteered years of such information to the tech giants (Google, Facebook)
    and other institutions (your bank, your supermarket, your government, your telco,
    your internet provider, your car manufacturer, etc.), who are storing it and
    using it with the only purpose of profiting from it, with very little or no
    responsibility at all towards how sensitive your data could be if it fell in the
    wrong hands.

5.- The passwords cannot protect you. They keep telling you that you should use
    'long and complex passwords', and the longer the safer, but in reality, there
    is no way any password could protect any account now.
    By now all the short to medium length passwords are already cracked, and
    there have been so many data breaches from institutions and service providers
    that many of you passwords have already been leaked to the very worst of the
    hands.

6.- Our entire surroundings are crowded with millions of cameras which are
    permanently recording our movements and feeding systems equiped with software
    capable of identifying all of us and registering our location.

7.- Finaly, the advances in technology, computer power and what today is called
    "Artificial Intelligence" enable previously unthinkable levels of analysis and
    learning in order to extract your money (both marketing and scams) and manipulate
    your thoughts (ie. driving public opinion and voting).
    And you may think that all these are only available for the super powerful, but
    wrong again, all these computer power and algoritms are for rent by the hour
    by the tech giants to whoever put a credit card and pays for it, so your data
    and the intelligence to hack it and analyse it are commodities of the XXI century.

Having said all of the above, from now on you MUST assume that all the info about
yourself, your kids, your family and friends, and all communications to and from
all of them, along with every picture you or anybody posted of you or anyone you care
is already out there for whoever wants to use it for good or for bad.

So, does this mean that it is game over and there is nothing we could do about it?

Hell, no! We must equip and empower ourselves to stop leaking all this info and prepare
ourselves for our defense and eventual confrontation with these actors.

Ironically, we will need to educate ourselves about how to use to our advantage
some of the very same tools created to spy on us.

We will learn how to be ANONYMOUS, which is not other thing that "hiding at plain
sight".

These notes are the records of our learnings in this journey, so that you and the
next generation after you could continue learning and fighting for our privacy.
