Your Public and Private YOU
---------------------------

As per the picture we have described, we have already provided millions of data points
about ourselves, which are already systematically linked to our true identity.

The only way to be 'anonymous' and 'private' in the current world would be to abandon
your current identity and forge a new one, cutting off completely from your current one,
meaning never seeing any of your friends and family again, nor visiting the places you
are familiar with, neither use your money again. This does not make much sense unless you
are the target of a powerful actor and your life is at risk, and in such case, honestly,
your chances are very slim.

For the 'Average Joe and Mary', the objective is to stop volunteering all their data
and enabling these powerful actors to control and manipulate them. To make more difficult
for them to profile them and record each and every move they make.

As the 'public' Joe and Mary will continue to exist in the society, with their normal
jobs and activities, there is nothing wrong with carrying on with their current phones,
emails, Google and bank accounts. They just need to learn to separate these from their
private information.

There is no problem in knowing that Joe's email is joe@somewhere.com, his phone number
is 1234567890 and his bank account is with Bank XYC Inc., all that is public knowledge
and people need this info to be able to communicate and send money to him.

What is not necessary and MUST be avoided is to allow other peole to log and correlate
this public info with what he was reading in the internet or the news, or all the
messages he sent to his children, or what time he goes to bed every night, or whether
he supports the party A or B, or whether he is planning to go on vacation or to divorce
his wife.

In order to achieve this segregation, Joe and Mary (and their children) must navigate
and engage with the myriad of website and portals out there without revealing their
true location or identity unless it is strictly necessary (ie. to transact with their
bank, government or tax office). All other communications must be done using no
identification at all or additional identities created in a way that they cannot be
connected to their true identity.

Moreover, all communications must be 'encrypted', which is a way of mathematically mess
with messages and data, so that only the intended receptor of such data could read it.
Any other uninvited reader of such inforamtion will have a very hard time trying to
'decypher' it.

The 'public' and the 'private' YOU shall never be seen talking to each other or sharing
the same files, phones, names, friends or anything. They shall remain like total
extrangers to each other, coexisting in the huge and anonymous ocean which is the
Internet.

In the next chapters we will address each an every tool and step that Joe and Mary
should take to accomplish keeping their private self 'hidden in plain sight'.
