Your phone is your worst enemy
------------------------------

Phones, both mobile and land lines, are the most difficult if not impossible to keep anonymous.

They are tied to your name and bank account, and in most of the world you are not allowed to
purchase a phone without providing identification details.

Once you are connected with the phone number, you will be able to be tracked no matter where
you are or go.

There are still some places where you can buy a 'burner phone' (and anonymous phone purchased
off the shelf with cash with no strings attached to anyone), but it is increasily more rare
and difficult.

As most services would require you to verify and email and/or a phone number to create an account,
you can use these 'burner phone' to open the account and then throw the phone away.There is no
point in keeping the phone because as this phone travels along with you and your other phones
(ie. as in your pocket or in your car), it won't be long before it gets correlated with you, your
home address or your credit card and then is game over.

Mobile phones are permanently reporting their location to telephone company, and if you have
a Google or Apple account, they are also reporting it to them. They do this ALL THE TIME, meaning TENS OF THOUSANDS of times per month, so they virtually have your location every minute.

Additionally, all telephone technologies can be wiretapped, and with the advances of 'Artificial
Intelligence' you can assume that they are listen and analysed by software. Telcos are either
voluntarily or coerced to wiretap on telephone conversations. Additionally, they are also
vulnerable to be hacked and then, unknowingly provide the same information.

For most of us, this is not an issue, we just need to know that we are tracked all the time, but
if you seriously need to protect some part of your 'private you' from univited guests, you must
switch it off or leave it somewhere else when you need not to be tracked (ie. leave your phone at
home or at the office and go to a cafe to connect to the internet).

As we will see soon, most of our communications will be in written form, anonymous and encrypted,
but if you really need to make a private phone call, your best shot is leaving your mobile phone
at home, going to a crowded place and make a call from a payphone. This is OK for the average
Joe and Mary in their quest to remain anonymous, but if you are being tracked and your security
is at risk, this is not an option. You will be spotted on the CCTV cameras and most likely your
conversation will be intercepted, listened and your location will be found.
