Anonymous Internet Navigation - Tor
-----------------------------------

The first step towards preserving your privacy is being able to interact with the Internet
without being tracked or profiled, so that you can keep your interests, preferences and
relationships away from uninvited eyes and ears.

This is absolutely impossible if you are using the standard software in your PC. The standard
software are purposely designed to track each and every move you do, every click and every pause.
They also track what you download and even where you spent more and lesser time.
They track your physical location and who is the user or person who is logged in.

With all these data, the observers create a very detailed profile of you, which is later sold
for profit to commercial and political actors who will use it to sell you goods and services
or influence your thoughts, opinions and votes.

If you were actually being chased, you'd need only to connect to your email to instantly
reveal your location and potentially put yourself under tremendous risk.

Since the begining of the Internet people have been concerned about this issue, bearing in mind
that many people in the world are human rights activists, victims of abusive regimes,
military and intelligence personel, jornalist operating in hostile environments, etc., so since
the early 2000's, independents, military and governments started to collaborate to find a way to
protect all these people.

The solution is called Tor (The Onion Router), which basically is about sending your packets of
data encrypted multiple times through a series of random nodes across the world, which none of
them knows where you really are (except the 1st one) or which server you are communicating to
(except for the last one). All the information is encrypted using the keys of the intermediate
servers or nodes, so each of these nodes only has the necessary information to pass the
encrypted packet to the next node, but it cannot decypher the content of the packet.

These nodes are located in different countries, making very difficult for any actor to be
able to compromise enough number of nodes so that he can have access to the full 'circuit'.

So the system works in a way that when Joe wants to communicate with the server X, his message is
encrypted and send to server A, then to server B, and then to server C, being the latter the one
which actually communicates with server X. For someong inspecting the data coming to server X, it
will look as if the connection is coming from server C, and won't be able to know where Joe is
actually located, because this information is only available to server A.

All the information in the Tor nerwork is encrypted, so it is not possible to read the data either.

Finally, if there were only a couple of users of Tor, it would be easy to figure out or guess
who is connecting with who, but there are hundreds of thousands of people in the world using Tor all
the time, so we can observe that someone is connecting to the server X, but it won't be easier
to know which of the users is the one using that connection.

We have achieved the anonymous Internet.

It is more complex than this, and there are ways to trick you to reveal your actual location (ie.
by downloading a file which will in turn download a picture from some other server through a
connection that goes directly to the server without passing through the Tor network), so you
must ensure that all data connections are routed through Tor.

Making sure that everything in your PC is routed through Tor is not a trivial task, because your
normal PC has been engineered by designed to track you, but fortunately some people have sorted out
this for us and created 'Tails', a fully operational operating system and software collection that
has been pre-configured to work with Tor, and it can be run from a USB flash memory or 'thumb
drive', so you only need to plug this thumb drive into any PC and boot it from the thumb drive
and you will get a fully functional anonymous session with all the basic tools you need.

You can find 'Tails' and its documentation at: https://tails.boum.org/

With 'Tails' and Tor you would be able to achieve 2 important goals:

a) If you don't login to any website or service, an observer of the traffic will not be able to
   tell who you are or where on the world you are located. They will know someone is using Tor
   but they won't be able to identify you among the hundreds of thousands of people using Tor
   worldwide.

b) If you login to any website of service, they will be able to identify you as the one behind
   the connection, but they won't be able to know where in the world you are located, because
   the will see only the connection coming out of the last node, which could be half the world
   appart from where you really are located.
