Anonymous Email and Encryption
------------------------------

With 'Tails' and the Tor network you are able to safely navigate the Internet (and even the 'Deep Web' or 'Dark Net'),
but you cannot do much, because as soon as you identify yourself with any service (Google, Yahoo or even any forum
where you may be registered), you would have instantly revealed your identity and everything you do from that
point will still be logged and profiled.

The next step is to forge one or multiple alternative identities that you would use to interact with portals and
other people in the Internet, without ever revealing who you really are or where you are actually located.

The cornerstone of these identities is to have an 'anonymous email', an email account which is not tied up to your
name, your ID, your telephone number or your public email address. A totally new and clean email address
with no strings attached.

This is not that simple, because Gmail, Yahoo, Hotmail and every major email provider will (at least) ask you for a
verified telephone number, and if you are in a place where 'burner phones' are not available you will have no way
to fullfil with such requirement without giving away your identity.

Fortunately, there are still a few services that can provide you with 'anonymous email', we have successfully
tested the following:

http://en.onionmail.info/ (this is the clearnet explanatory website, to set up an account you will need to
                           connect to any of their .onion servers using Tor).

https://cock.li/          (a vulgarly named service, but it works for the purpose of being anonymous).

https://send-email.org/   (one-way email service, so you can send an email to anyone, but they cannot reply to
                           you)
                           Update 2018-04-28 - The system is down or at least is blocked by all the mayor email
                                               providers, thus it cannot be used).

https://tutanota.com/     (this service will allow you to register an account without providing any information,
                           name, email or telephone number, but you will need to access the service via the web.
                           we suggest you manually encrypt with PGP any email sent through this system, and access
                           the website via Tor)

You MUST use your Tails session to create these accounts and every time you use them. You must never access these
accounts using 'normal' software as you will instantly compromise your privacy.

Once equiped with anonymous email, you can create accounts in forums or communicate with people without revealing
your actual name or location. Now you truly are anonymous in the Internet.


Encryption
----------

All the previous steps have provided us with the benefit of being anonymous, so we cannot be identified
among thousands of people who are also using the internet anonymously, but our messages can still be read
by anyone who gained access to the servers where these services are running, because in those servers
the messages are stored in 'plain text'.

The next step in our quest is to make sure that only the poeple for whom these messages are intended are
the only ones who are able to read them. For this purpose we use 'encryption'.

Encryption is a way of using mathematics to dis-arrange a message in a way that it looks like a bunch of
gibberish text. Anybody with access to the message will be able to tell that message goes from Mr. A to Ms. B,
(who should be 2 anonymous emails), but won't be able to decypher the message, because only Ms. B has the
'private key' that allows her to convert the message back to plain text.

Prior to sending the message, Mr. A had 'encrypted' the message using Ms. B's 'public key', which allows to
encrypt a message for Ms. B, but does not allow to decypher it. This is called 'asimetric keys cryptography'
and you can read about it in the internet, but it provides us with a very useful tool, because by giving
the 'public key' to people, anybody can encrypt a message directed to you, but only you can read the message
because you keep the 'private key' secret.

We can also use your 'private keys' to 'sign' messages and documents so that the other party (who has your
'public key') could verify that the message really comes from you and it has not been altered on the way.

By exchanging the 'public keys' with the people you need to communicate with, you would be able to keep
your communications private.

Of course, this poses a new challenge: How to safely exchange the keys with the other people?

Exchanging the keys is of utmost importance, because if instead of using the public key of a person you use
the public key of his/her enemy, you will be encrypting the message for the enemy to read. The enemy will
then read the message and re-encrypt using the correct key of the person and send it again, so that
he/she would never know that the message was tampered. This is called 'man-in-the-middle attack'.

If you are not able to exchange the public keys in person by physically pass a thumb drive with the key file
to the other person (which would be ideal and possible if you all know each other in person), you will
publish your public key in a server, available for the entire world to see and find out. This is not a
risk, because as long as you are the only person who has the secret private key, the only thing that
can be done with the public key is encrypting messages for you to decypher, and verifying if something
has been 'signed' using your private key. So using these servers is the preferred option.

The key-servers do not (and cannot) verify that the key that has been uploaded truely belongs to the
email address associated to it, so anybody can upload any key pointing to any email address, so the first
person who does it actually 'locks' the server for that particular email address, so it is a good practice
to upload your public key to a server so that no man-in-the-middle could do it before you and could trick
other people to use the wrong key. These servers have a protocol to syncronize among themselves, so once
you have uploaded the key to one of them, the key will propagate to the others.

From time to time, you may choose to change these keys, just in case they might have been compromised
in any way.

All these look complicated, but fortunately 'Tails' has all these functionalities already installed and
configured to be used with the Tor network. From within 'Tails' you will be able to create your pair of
public and private keys and upload the 'public key' to a server for other people to use.

'Tails' comes with the email client 'Thunderbird', which has been pre-configured to run all its network
communications via Tor, so it is safe and at the same time convenient to write your emails and manage
all these keys and passwords.

'Tails' also allows you to create an encrypted folder inside the very same 'Tails' thumb drive where you
can 'persistently' keep your configurations, keys and any other information that may be critical or
important for you. As this folder is encrypted, there is no big risk in getting it lost, except for
the loss of data, of course, so you will need to recreate everything again.

You can find 'Tails' and its documentation at: https://tails.boum.org/

With all of the above you would have finally accomplished anonymous and private communications to anyone
in the world.

WARINING: THERE IS NO PERFECT SYSTEM OR IMPLEMENTATION OF IT, SO EVERY PIECE OF SOFTWARE, HARDWARE OR
          PROTOCOL HAS ITS OWN VULNERABILITIES, SO BE MINDFUL AND USE ALL THESE WITH CARE TO REASONABLY
          PROTECT YOURSELF AND THE PEOPLE YOU CARE FOR, BUT BE FULLY AWARE THAT SOME ACTORS, AND
          PARTICULARLY THE VERY POWERFUL ONES, MAY STILL BE ABLE TO TAP INTO YOUR COMMUNICATIONS.
          SOMEONE EXPLOITING VULNERABILITIES THAT WE MAY NOT BE AWARE OF, OR HAVING UNLIMITED RESOURCES
          TO HACK INTO MANY SERVERS ACROSS MANY GEOGRAPHYS WILL BE VERY DIFFICULT TO DEFEAT, HOWEVER
          IF YOU HAVE BEEN DISCIPLINED TO SEGREGATE YOUR IDENTITIES, AND NEVER GIVE INFORMATION
          (NOT EVEN ENCRYPTED) THAT COULD TELL WHO YOU REALLY ARE OR WHERE YOU ARE LOCATED OR WHICH
          OTHER IDENTITIES ARE YOURS, WE BELIEVE THAT EVEN THIS POWERFUL ACTOR WILL END UP WITH ONLY
          BITS AND PIECES OF 'YOU' AFTER A GREAT DEAL OF EFFORT.
