Anonymous and Encrypted Chat
----------------------------

While having the possibility of navigating the Internet and sending and receiving emails
privately is already very useful, there will be some times in which you need to have a
live conversation with someone, while still remain private and anonymous.

Using the phone is not an option. Using End-to-end encrypted chat is the best option.

You can technically use any type of message, as long as you manually encrypt each message
for the correspoding recipient. In practice you could even post the encrypted messages in any
public blog and get your replies in exactly the same way. As long as you both encrypt every
message and interact with the service using Tor, you will be visible to everybody, but
the others won't be able to know where you both are or what you are chatting about.

An easier-to-use option comes along with the 'Tails' operating system and applications.
It is called 'Pidgin Internet Messaging' and it provides end-to-end encryption for each
of you messages, without you having to manually encrypt each of them. You will just
chat with your buddy as in any other messaging system.

There are many messaging systems which claim that they also provide end-to-end encryption,
but their programming code is closed (meaning secret or sealed), so we cannot trust them
because we have no way to verify whether they are really doing as they say. Conversely,
'Pidgin' is an open source application, meaning that anyone can audit each line of
programming code that is used to provide the service, allowing independent people to
spot any 'back door' or vulnerability in the system.

Every time you re-start 'Tails' it will randomly create a username with a disposable
encryption key for you to use. If you wish to have a persistent username across multiple
sessions, you will need to configure 'Pidgin' to store these credencials in the encrypted
portion of the thumb drive in the same way as you did with 'Thunderbird' for your email.

You can find 'Tails' and its documentation at: https://tails.boum.org/

In order to contact and chat with your buddy, you both will need to connect to an IRC or
chat network. Not many of them are friendly to 'Tor', with many of them actually blocking
or denying access via 'Tor'.

You may find the latest known status of what services are available and how to connect
to them from 'Tor' at: https://gitlab.torproject.org/legacy/trac/-/wikis/doc/BlockingIrc

